Particle Filter Notes
	Fox, Thrun, et al.
		"the most fundamental problem to providing a mobile robot with autonomous capabilities" Cox 1991
		position tracking (known initial pose), seeks to correct small, incremental errors in a robot's odometry vs. global localization
		Even the most straightforward implementation of particle filters exhibits excellent results for the position tracking and the global localization problem
		In contrast to the widely used Kalman filters, particle filters can approximate a large range of probability distribution, not just normal distributions
		Particle filters are computationally efficient, since they focus their resoures on regions in state space with high likelihood
		Particle filters are easily implemented as any-time filters, by dynamically adapting the number of samples based on available computation resources
		Easy to implement
		Monte Carlo localization is a particle filter combined with probabilistic models of robot perception and motion
		Bayes filters address the problem of estimate the state x of a dynamical system from sensor measurements
		Bayes filters assume that the environment is Marov... past and future data are conditionally independent if one knows the current state
		The key idea of Bayes filtering is to estimate the posterior probability density over the state space conditioned on the data
		Perceptual data vs. odometry data or controls
			Tag reception vs. velocity
		Convolving conventional robot kinematics with two independent zero-mean random variables
		The perceptual model depends on the specific sensor
		First, the measurement in an ideal, noise-free environment is computed. The desired density is obtained as a mixutre of random variables, composed of one that models the event of getting the correct reading (convolved with small Guassian-distributed measurement noise), ... max range noise etc....
		If the state space is continuous, as is the case in mobile robot localization, implementing the belief update euqation is not a trivial matter
		Comparison to Grid-based Localization
			also Markov
			MCL is much, move faster
	Leung, Clark
		The algorithm propagates particles through time using the survival of the fittest concept.
		A benefit of the particle filter is that it works for probability distributions of any shape and is able to achieve localization with an unknown initial state.
		This factor is determined by observations made by exteroceptive sensors (in this case the camera), and is a function of the similarity between expected measurements and observed measurements. 
		Through numerous trials with different sizes of particle sets, it has been shown that offline localization can be achieved with as little as 300 particles. However, it was determined that 2000 particles are required to assure a high likelihood of convergence.
		mean shift clustering algorithm
		Timing analysis indicates that the current implementation of the particle filter on a computer with a 1.5GHz Pentium M processor is unable to achieve real time operation while processing camera images at 1Hz. 
			SOOO SLOOOWWWWW
	Yap et al.
		For mobile robots to effectively navigate their surround- ings, they must have precise estimates of their position and orientation (pose).
		Typically, a proprioceptive sensor (e.g. odometry) provides estimates for the robot’s motion, and one or more extero- ceptive sensors (e.g. laser rangefinders) are used to provide additional localization information and improve the accuracy of the estimates.
		Cameras are an attractive option for a number of reasons: They are cheap, small, low powered, and lightweight; they are becoming increasingly common; and they are versatile in that they can also be used for other robotic tasks (e.g. object or place detection and recognition).
	Alkhatib et al.
		Kalman filter
			Optimal only if the system is linear and the error process is Gaussian
			Other techniques, such as the Extended Kalman Filter and Unscented Kalman filter have been introduced
		Monte Carlo Techniques
			Particle filtering is based on Monte Carlo simulation with sequential importance sampling
			Sequential Importance Sampling is a popular MC integration ethod
			This process approximates the posterior by a set of weighted samples without making any explicit assumption about its form and can thus be used in general, non-Guassian systems
			Usually some kind of resampling scheme is used to avoid the problem of degeneracy of drawn particles
			Whereas the EKF approximates the nonlinear function, the UKF and PF approximate the PDF
			The PF leads in the case of high variances to the best results
			

		

